have you ever heard of a streeter
interview
now this is going back to my journalism
days when i used to be a newspaper
reporter
and we did this thing called streeter
interviews which is a concept where
you go to a public place and you ask
random
people a question when i worked at the
newspaper we used to ask
people about current events or topics
that were the news of the day
but this can be adapted and tweaked to
whatever
business or even whatever hobby or
interest
you have and today i am going to teach
you
three tips on how to give a great
streeter
interview and to deliver great content
for your audience
hey everyone my name is wade patterson
and this is the channel where you come
to for all things communications and how
to raise
your game as a communicator if you like
my content consider subscribing or
liking the video or commenting
below let's get back to streeter
interviews so how i'm going to start
this video is
actually showing you an example of a
streeter
interview that i did and i'll set the
context
i joined remax of western canada as a
social media and communications
coordinator back in 2016
and to give the real estate agents an
idea
of how they should be using social media
or at least what the public
thinks about social media i did a
streeter interview in downtown kelowna
british columbia
asking random people about social media
and there were four things i wanted to
find out
number one why do people go on social
media in the first place
number two will people follow businesses
on social media number three
how much time are people spending on
social media
and the last thing i wanted to find out
is are there things that businesses do
on social media
that people don't like so much so let's
take a look at that streeter interview
hi there my name is wade patterson i'm
the social media communications
coordinator with re max of western
canada
and today i'm in kelowna's downtown and
we're going to walk around talk to a few
people
and ask them some questions about social
media let's see what they have to say
i'm here with sabrina and nikki it's
charlotte with clement
here with kayla and kayla my first
question for you
what social media networks are you on
and why i
am mostly on facebook to keep in touch
with my family
because my family's all in ontario right
so it's the best way
to keep in touch just instagram just
instagram what about you
just instagram why do you use instagram
what do you like about it
uh mostly to keep up with friends and
family and
uh just see what they're doing and a
little bit for businesses like
to see what's going on going on around
kelowna and what's happening in town
awesome how about your nickel yeah i
have a lot of family that's out of town
so for me it's a good way of keeping in
touch with them on facebook
for me i did my schooling abroad in
sweden
and so it's a way to keep in touch with
people and from that aspect of it so
that's what i use social media how many
hours per day
would you say you spend on social media
i'm going to go
one probably an hour maybe two tops not
bad not bad
yeah about an hour and a half pet peeves
on social media anything about social
media that just drives me crazy
the way people might use a certain thing
or post
something that's posted on facebook
often or anything like that
i think rants right uneducated rants
would be one of those things last
question are there any businesses that
you guys follow
on instagram and why do you follow those
businesses
i follow quite a few like restaurants
like especially smaller ones downtown
like
salted brick and um
fsh like a few of those just see what's
happening around downtown yeah it's kind
of fun to see what's happening in your
area
a lot of what i follow is kind of
healthy eating and tips and tricks like
that so it's not businesses per se like
clothing stores right
if i were it's probably because they
caught me and you could get a 15
discount or something like that right
but then i i
unlike them shortly after because i kind
of got what i wanted and moving forward
i hope you enjoyed that streeter
interview i know what you might be
thinking
wow wait you actually had a little bit
of hair back in 2016
yes yes that is that is gone
now unfortunately so that video had a
lot of
interesting findings and what i was able
to do for my purposes as training
real estate agents was i was able to
show them hey here is what members of
the public
think about social media and how
businesses should be using social media
you should definitely be consider using
that as a marketing tool
and know what types of content that they
actually want to engage with so like i
say this is a really
unique strategy a unique interview style
that
you can take you can adapt to your
business
or perhaps you have a youtube channel
and you want to do this to talk about
whatever your youtube channel is about i
don't know what specifically it is for
you
but this can be a strategy that can be
adapted to most hobbies and businesses
so if you're feeling ambitious and you
actually want to take on a street
streeter interview
here are my three tips for how you can
do a great
streeter interview and get through the
process
tip number one don't let rejection get
you
down think about the last time you were
out
minding your own business going about
your day and somebody interrupted you to
ask you to do something
what was your mood were you upset about
it maybe you went through with it but
you weren't happy
the truth is when you ask somebody
completely randomly out in the public
if they want to talk on camera which is
what most people are pretty afraid of
about a particular subject you're going
to get a lot of no's
a lot of people are not going to want to
do this
and it's important to respect that
respect their decision of course
thank them for for considering it tell
them to have a great day
but don't let it get you down because
you might hear 20 people say no
and then you'll hear that one person say
yes
and for my video example there was about
four different people i was interviewing
and that's really all it takes to make a
short video
and give some variety to your audience
so if you hear the word no keep your
chin up be
friendly be kind and ask the next person
alright so you heard several people say
no and finally you have that individual
that says yes
they will stand with you on camera and
they will do an interview talking about
whatever subject
you want tip number two is to prep that
person
and explain the context to them so let
them know
how you're going to be using the video
what the purpose is for
perhaps it's for a business training
event perhaps it's for youtube whatever
it is just make sure that person knows
and is comfortable with where that video
is going to be shown
and then tell them give them the heads
up of what types of questions you're
going to be
asking what information you're looking
for specifically
you don't want to throw them off guard
with a curveball question you want them
to be confident prepared
and give you great answers as well tip
number three for conducting a great
streeter interview is making sure
your audio equipment sounds good and
that you're eliminating as much
background noise as possible now if
you're interviewing people on the street
especially if it's a popular street
there is going to be all sorts of
background noise
cars driving by horns honking people
yelling perhaps and you can't really
control that
even in my video you probably noticed
there was one part in particular where
the
sound wasn't great quality and you want
to eliminate as many of those hiccups as
possible
you can consider using a lav mic which
is going to help
project the voice even better the
internal camera microphone
probably isn't going to cut it for that
type of interview
in the video i showed we were using a
shotgun mic which was kind of a
medium ground it helped but it wasn't
the perfect solution
but as long as you have a little bit of
audio equipment
that is going to go a long way in terms
of your audience watching the content
later and getting the most value
possible from it now this was a fun
video to do i know this is kind of an
out there subject the streeter interview
concept
but hey i would love to hear if any of
you
are thinking of doing this hit me up in
the comments below let me know
what your business is and how you're
going to implement this strategy
if you like this content in general
subscribe to my channel because i talk
about
a lot of different communication ideas
and i
am stoked to help you out along your
journey thanks so much for watching this
video
and we'll catch you next time